---
layout: post
title: Day 50 Activities
---

### Good news. We've actively used the  OA system for 50 days with no major catastrophes. Celebrated by spending the day water sampling and cleaning oyster poop; here's the summary:

* Primed the pH probe with low pH water from tank 2
* Labeled bottles
* Picked up Rick's Sond to measure salinity
* Animals were being fed (header tank was ~3/4 full). Because I was planning on draining them in an hour or so, I turned off the flow from the header tanks to the culture tanks to let the oysters eat. 
* Took water samples @ 1pm
* Measured grab samples for T, S & pH. I've been using both our salinity probe (even though it appeared broken, was trying to record uS/cm in case it was reading correctly), and Rick's Sond, but today the glass bulb on our salinity probe broke off. I only recorded Salinity via the Sond. Finished measuring @ 1:45pm. 
* Injected HgCl into bottle samples; finished this @ 2:05pm. 
* Cleaned all tanks. Method: 
  * Remove Olys and place in tray
  * Use large siphon to drain; when water level gets low I tip the tank on its edge to drain as much water as possible. Then I remove the probes if they are in there and place in a tri-pour with their respective treatment water.
  * Carry the tank to the floor, thoroughly spray gigas in tank with fresh water to remove large particles/feces. This time I counted the # of polychaets found in each tank, and collected the polychaets that I saw to give to Chelsea Wood - she is inspecting them to figure out which species it is. _Most are found amongst the gigas - sitting on top of the valve that faces down, or in the cracks/crevaces. I found one in an Oly bag, and have seen a few in the past, but the majority are in gigas._
  * Dump gigas into tray.
  * Thoroughly spray each gigas and each oly back individually.
  * Sanitize the tank with Vortex cleaning solution, rinse with fresh water
  * Replace tank, replace cleaned animals. 
  * I did not move the animals, tanks or probes around this time.
* Bleached the algae lines with 20mL 12percent bleach in 3 gallons. Let bleach water run through system (from algae lines through the lines that run into the tanks - but redirected bleach water to the floor). Rinsed lines with 3 gallons of fresh water. 
* Replaced all filters

### Notes: 
  * String/mucusy stuff re-appeared in tanks 1 & 2 in large amounts, and a small amount in tank 3. We need to sample this on Saturday if we see it. 
  * No gigas mortality. I have not counted Oly mortality (there are definitely a few), but will do so on Saturday when we sample. 
  
  



