---
layout: post
title: May 17th 2017
---

It’s been 14 full days since we moved broodstock to their separate “chambers.” From the literature, oysters release larvae on average 10-12 days after fertilization.  Today I will clean all broodstock, larval catchment buckets, after which I will plan to collect larvae to save/rear.

- Arrived 9:30am
- Installed 2nd immersion heater (500 watt) that I borrowed from Jon and set to 19degC. Changed set point for the other immersion heater to 19degC.  Water temp seems to cool down a bit from the header tank b/c room temperature gets below 18degC at times (at night, when PSRF is trying to spawn abalone/sea cucumbers)
- Dumped and cleaned larval buckets on east/larval table: I had left water flowing through this system overnight to test it and rinse it.
- Cut new outflow tube for broodstock buckets- the old ones were dirty
- Tested method of collecting only live larvae. Set up a small larval catchment bucket with banjo, removed banjo from 5-gallon larvae bucket, and increased flow using the 26 L/Hr dripper. Tested this on the SN-10 low pH B group since there were lots of larvae, and I kept an eye on things over the day.  After 6 hours, I could see larvae that remained on the bottom of the bucket, which I collected and there were still lots and lots of live ones (see video).  I was surprised!
-  Deployed 8 new HOBO loggers, one for each broodstock tank
-  Cleaned gigas - NOTE: no more stringy stuff!
-  Cleaned Oly broodstock:
    - Stopped flow to bottom shelf
    - Collected larvae in catchment buckets
    - Sampled larvae and fixed in Lugols
    - Collected larvae that remained in 5-gal bucket
    - Rinsed broodstock with freshwater
    - Cleaned all buckets with Vortex solution
    - Moved broodstock to other side of table, placed them randomly along manifold.
- Screened and sampled larvae that I had been keeping alive so I could take images of them, and perhaps also to count. Dumped them down the drain!
- I will upload and tag all images, and save in GitHub/Google Drive. Link to image location TBD.
