---
layout: post
title: May 23rd - 26th, 2017 
--- 

### May 23rd

First full day of screenling larval buckets to assess survival, growth, and determine stocking numbers for next 3 days.  Katie Davidson helped out, as did Steven.  

Tasks
- Screen larvae for different size classes, count, re-stock buckets:
    - Screen through…. 140, 160, 180 … ?
        - **Decided on 2 size classes, <180, >180.** Screened through 160 today on first 2 groups, and nothing held; will screen through 180 next week. Only screened onto 100 today, counted live, and used that info to re-stock buckets.
    - Sample for counts & images
    - Sample for freezer
    - Stock buckets - method depends on # surviving larvae- Replace drippers - DONE
- Replace banjos - DONE
- Collect new larvae, count, stock, and sample excess
- Measure dripper rate @ larval tank  - NOT DONE
- Collect water sample for algae counts from each dripper - NOT DONE
- Record broodstock & larvae group locations on tables/manifolds - NOT DONE

### May 24th 

- Arrival inspection
- Image yesterday’s larvae - DONE 
- Change banjos - DONE
- Change drippers - DONE
- Collect & Sample for counts - DONE
- Sample rest for -80 - DONE
- Talk to Ryan about:
    - Larvae health - help trouble shooting? 
      - Larvae looked sluggish when screening yesterday; this could simply be a response to the handling, however it is markedly different from the new larvae that are collected in a similar manner Ryan said that "lazy" larvae can be a sign of supersaturation of Nitrogen or Oxygen. He suggested raising the drippers out of the bucket to allow for degassing, and increasing the aeration. I did so. 
    - Setting tank
      - Ryan showed me which silos I can use in the setting tanks outside; I checked with Joth (as he may have had plans for the tanks), but he said that I could use them through the month of June. 
    - PSRF and other help while I'm at FHL?
      - Stuart has agreed to oversee the project 
      - Jade and Dana can help out
      - Olivia to work Mondays (1x per week)
    
### May 25th, 2017 

Arrival Inspection:
  - Larval Table:
    - Aeration did not hold overnight. 
    - Banojs very dirty, likely due to use of Tetraselmis in algae cocktail. I will request that PSRF not feed my larvae Tet.
    - I can see larvae swimming in water column, however there are a significant amount at the bottom of the bucket. 
  - Larvae present in:
    - K-10 Low
    - HL-10 Ambient
    - K-10 Ambient
    - NF-6 Ambient A
    - NF-6 Low B
    - NF10 Ambient A
 
 Tasks:
 - Collected Larvae, sampled and counted most (not al- need to finish)
 - Sampled immediately after collecting, then stocked. 6 buckets = 1.75 hrs by mysefl.
 - Recorded location of bottom shelf broodstock and sensors on manifold 
 - Cleaned! the following took ~2 hrs
  - NF & SN broodstock thoroughly, including tubes, tube conenctors 
  - Replaced all drippers, banjos & air stones
 - Set up 2 "test" buckets to measure T & pH in both larval systems, and to test whether banjos will clog over 2 days. 
 - Sketched out possible June/July schedule coverage 


### May 26th, 2017    

Arrival Inspection: 
  - Larval Buckets
    - Aeration looks good
    - Very few bubbles accumulated on the inner walls of buckets- elevating the drippers and increasing aeration appeared to have been effective.
    - Banjos not consisently dirty; perhaps corresponding to the # larvae in bucket? Need to measure dripper rate on manifold to confirm equal flow rates.
 
 Broodstock:
   - NF-6 Ambient A group is foamy- male(s) likely spawning today
   - Water color looks light; increased algae dosing rate to 120 pulses/min
 
 Larvae present in:
   - NF-6 Low B
   - NF-6 Ambient B
   - HL-10 Ambient
   - K-10 Low
   - K-6 Low
   - HL-10 Low (ID'd in afternoon)
   - SN-10 Low B (ID'd in afternoon)

Tasks:
- Screen larval buckets, count, restock - 3 hrs for 16 buckets
  - Possibly use 2 different buckets per group, if needed - this was needed for SN-10 Low, & SN-10 Ambient
  - I was pleasantly surprised at the survival rate! Despite larvae consistently pooling at the bottom of the buckets, my survival rate for the SN & NF groups appears adequate (calculations TBD).  The K group, which has been consistently stocked since Friday, had poorer survival rate.  **Need to refine data sheet to auto-calculate stocking #'s and survival rate** 
- Collect new larvae, stock in buckets - 2 hrs
    - sample excess larvae & freeze
- Image larvae from 5/23 & 5/24 & finish counts - 30 minutes -not done.
- Daily maintenance: - 30 minutes - done.
    - Replace banjos
    - Replace drippers
    - Spray down filters
- Clean top row broodstock if there’s time - 1 hr - not done.
