---
layout: post
title: Goals in the New Year
---

### January 2017 Goals

Review of last month:
  * Completed the Bioinformatics class project; check out my repo here: [Bioinformatics project results](https://github.com/laurahspencer/546-Bioinformatics/tree/master/2016-10_Geo-Ann-Project/results)
  * Spent a full week in the lab with Yaamini, getting the DNR geoduck samples prepped for protein analysis on Mass Spec.
  * Successfully completed my first quarter as a grad student
  * Steven helped to get _O. lurida_ animals in the water at Manchester with 2 temperature treatments. 
  
January Goals:  
  * **Geoduck DNR:**  
      * Prepare histogram of m/z for geoduck proteins (from previous samples) to identify appropriate window of peptide m/z  
      * Need to order piptide standards(?) for mass spec time? _Confirm with Emma._
      * Run DNR geoduck samples through Mass Spec (scheduled January 17-25)  
      * Prepare a plan of attack to analyze geoduck proteomics data  
  * **Oly temp/OA project @ Manchester**  
    * Take a trip to Manchester to catalogue the animals  
    * Sample at the end of the temperature treatment(?) - depending on # of animals  
    * Start recording project metadata and other important data (e.g. collect temp data when possible, algae diet, interesting events, etc.)  
  * **Prep for Pub-a-thon 2017:**
    * What do I write about?
    * Play with platforms that are up for consideration.
  * **Read papers!**   
    * Consider migrating paper organization from Evernote to Paperpile, Zotero, or Mendeley
  * **Re-examine my SAFS plan**
    * When should I shoot to have my committee assembled? Who?
    * Should the proposal writing class OR the pub-a-thon be leveraged to help prepare my thesis project plan?
  * **Apply for things:** 
    * Friday Harbor summer term course @ associated scholarships
    * UW/SAFS travel grants for Knoxville
    * What else? ... 
