---
layout: post
title: Thur. Nov 29, 2018
---


Journal Club:
	Slides presented are here
	discussed challenges and complexities of histone biology


Geoduck broodstock experiment:
Created variable pH script including a +/- 0.2 pH range and two daily peaks since that is generally what we observed in the ambient tanks. 
To find out how fast the pH will rise when the solenoid is turned off I looked at Oct 30 where this happened at 14:30pm and in 1 hour the pH rose about 0.5.
Started program at 6:30pm (pH @6.8)

pH probes PHX7 and PHX8 were consistent with each other but are offset from the probes PH_3 and PH_4 by 0.04-0.0



Respirometry:

Questions for Sam: 
	- fill chambers all the way? How to use the hose to fill? Yes with pump
	- max speed on pumps? Yes or whatever seems good
	- 1 hour trial length? 20-30 minutes
		- doublecheck time period from data
		- how low O2 gets down, not below 30-50% if possible
	- For each tank, 1 blank and rest animals?
		- 1 blank, 3 chambers 
		- ideal to have two blanks, but we can do this when we 
		- 
	- calibrate O2 probes? the
		- calibrated manually: enter 
		- oxy probes need to be plugged into the correct #s
			- 
			- below 50% saturation = only measuring anaerobic activity
		- temp probes 

		- git file says something about connectivity,

		-  


2way valve and attach pump

- 4L graduated cylinder to measure vol displaced: 2L water + geoduck then pour off into secondary measurement container.  g/ml water .
	- fill up to 2 L, then take duck out

- biovolume:
- ash free dry weight normally to correct 
- O2 decline per sec convert to hour umol O2/hr/L, correct with biovolume
- check water displacement of PVC pipe + pump
- sam see strong signal 

- make sure water is coming out of the temp port, press lid down a little, insert temp probe and close cable gland
- move clear tubing above chamber lid so water doesnt get 'siphoned' back out
- *ask matt about the water baths in bone yard

- close off the black valves on clear tubing to prevent air getting in or water coming out. 
-

****
----
