---
layout: post
title: Tues. Nov 13, 2018
---

 
	
For 546 class:  
	IGV :
	- open from shell script
	- adjust memory for running IGV with 
	- 'first aggregate' file in SR320 546 repo
	open the IGV gui and view all different tracks
	- - scaffolds in Pgenr 070 genome: 313,649; how will IGV handle this?

	Bedtools:  bedtools website
	- do coordinates of gff file intersect with coordinates of methylation data
	- find pgen GTF/GFF file:
		- one does not currently exist (see github issue #415) 

### 546 Goals: 
#### Accomplished:
	- create script for completing analysis and post-analysis (i.e. bismark summary) 
#### Still need to:
- transfer data to gannet after mox script finishes
- work on learning bedtools 
- work on learning diff meth analysis
- make sure class repository is organized and up-to-date with diff. analysis
	- can update C-virg repository with post-analysis
		- can start DMR?



- Meeting with Grace to discuss samples
	- compare pics to sample names: which are really at the stage they are suppose to be at
		- hemolymph and gonad?
		- transcriptomes?



- Prepare for FFAR meeting tomorrow
	- outline of broodstock experiment
		- show set up
		- 17 animals
		- ambient vs. constant pH 6.8
			- show prelim graphs
			- TA data?
		- sampling hemolymph every week (starting Friday?)
			- sample all animals?
			- can I bring a centrifuge out?
			- bring liquid N2 shipping container
			- assay repord. dev
				- VTG expression (have tissue samples to test assays on)
					- qPCR?
					- VTG absorbance 
					- Calcium abundance
				- serum metabolomics (6 month turnaround)
				- methylation?
		- sampling gonad 
			- needle biopsy of gonad
		- respirometry?
		- supplies still needed
			- Ca assay
			- biopsy needle

- Assaying reproductive maturation
	- Talked with Brent and Steven about the next steps
	- need to punch biopsy to stage and correlate with Calcium assay and expression
			-https://ar.admin.washington.edu/Buyer/Main/aw?awh=r&awssk=Wmhw
			- BXTTT1411 	DEVISE, BIOPSY, TEMNO, 14GX11CM 		In Stock. (Tracy, CA). More Info 	5/CS 		$534.17 	


	- need to label animals
		- superglue
			- gorilla super glue gel
		- plastic paper
			-vinyl adhesive paper @ hobby lobby
			- tested at home: (img)

	- ordering a calcium assay
		- calcium correlates with vitellogenin (WILL THIS BE DIFFEREENT BETWEEN MALE AND FEMALES? - (Vicencio J, Ibarra C, Estrada M et al. Testosterone Induces an Intracellular Calcium Increase by a Non-Genomic Mechanism in Cultured Rat Cardiac Myocytes. Endocrinology. 2006;147:390–398. [PubMed])
			- in crayfish, their VTG gene produces a protein P106 that binds calcium and is specific to ovaries (Abdu et al 2002 General and Comparative Endocrinology)
				- is this the calcium-binding phosvitin domain? (http://www.jbc.org/content/271/47/30227.full)

	- what about glycogen assay?

	- different domains of VTG may be expressed at different times:
		- Vtg domain
		- VtgR domain (both are expressed in pupae, but not in larvae or adults - https://academic.oup.com/jinsectscience/article/18/2/23/4924664)
		- Vtg delivery to oocytes depends on VtgR expression (https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0155306)

	- Do we have transcriptome data from hemolymph?



----
****