---
layout: post
title: Fri. Nov 30, 2018
---

Moved to new apartment! Came in around 3pm

### Adult geoduck respirometry call with Sam Gurr
uestions for Sam: 
	- fill chambers all the way? How to use the hose to fill? Yes with pump
	- max speed on pumps? Yes or whatever seems good
	- 1 hour trial length? 20-30 minutes
		- doublecheck time period from data
		- how low O2 gets down, not below 30-50% if possible
	- For each tank, 1 blank and rest animals?
		- 1 blank, 3 chambers 
		- ideal to have two blanks, but we can do this when we 
		- 
	- calibrate O2 probes? the
		- calibrated manually: enter 
		- oxy probes need to be plugged into the correct #s
			- 
			- below 50% saturation = only measuring anaerobic activity
		- temp probes 

		- git file says something about connectivity,

		-  


2way valve and attach pump

- 4L graduated cylinder to measure vol displaced: 2L water + geoduck then pour off into secondary measurement container.  g/ml water .
	- fill up to 2 L, then take duck out

- biovolume:
- ash free dry weight normally to correct 
- O2 decline per sec convert to hour umol O2/hr/L, correct with biovolume
- check water displacement of PVC pipe + pump
- sam see strong signal 

- make sure water is coming out of the temp port, press lid down a little, insert temp probe and close cable gland
- move clear tubing above chamber lid so water doesnt get 'siphoned' back out
- *ask matt about the water baths in bone yard

- close off the black valves on clear tubing to prevent air getting in or water coming out. 


### fill dewer for hemolymph sampling
- didn't have time to do this, chem store closes at 4pm. Will do next week

****
----