---
layout: post
title: Oly Genetics Meeting Recap 
---

Met with Brent to discuss initial analysis of Oly genetics data, interpret results and develop a new to-do list. Here's what I learned: 

  * **Hardy-Weinberg Equilibrium:** I had interpreted that all loci are not in HWE. Need to re-interpret results, as they should be. I possibly mis-interpreted the analysis. 
  * **Linkage disequilibrium:** I found evidence for linked loci, particularly between 13, 15 & 19. From Brent: these loci were tested and selected because they weren't linked. I should use another program/function to re-assess linkage. If they are confirmed as linked then I'll need to throw out all but one of those that are linked. 
  * **Null alleles:** The analysis that I performed was confusing, need to research further to figure out how to interpret results. Brent suggested that I use MicroChecker, which is easy and is the standard, as a secondary analysis. 
  * **Genetic diversity:**  often the metric for this is "Observed heterozygosity" vs. expected.
  * **Allelic richness:** can still report this, but since my sample sizes are very similar (99 vs. 100), don't need to focus on it. 
  * **Fst stat:** I found values between population to both be 0. This is good (full gene transfer), however shouldn't use this stat as the standard. 
  * **Effective population size:** not easy to calculate, wouldn't add anything to this analysis.
  * **Relatedness:** could calculate level of relatedness (Brent suggested Co-ancestry program); this would be interesting, but isn't completely necessary for the conclusions we are trying to draw. 
  * **Need to perform Fischer's Exact Test,** which is a powerful way to determine allelic divergence. GenePop does everything I need it to do. 
  * **Need to do a power analysis** to determine what kind of power I have to detect differences with this # loci and alleles. Brent suggested PowSim. 
  * **For Crystal's data:**  generate a quick plot of the raw data to make sure binning/rounding was performed correctly. 
  * **For presentations:**  
    - show plots with allele frequency distributions for each wild/hatchery population comparison
    - these are neutral markers, so we can't draw conclusions regarding non-neutral markers of adaptive significance 
    - these data provide a snapshot, and show that there is no strong divergence in these neutral markers 
    - but, this is only 6 microsatellite markers. Questions of hatchery selection remains, and can really only be answered via higher resolution data (SNPs).  


 
  
