---
layout: post
title: Fri. Apr 24, 2020 
tags:  
---

## Meth compare:

- work on piccard and qualimap figs
	- does data need to be subsetted for fig 3e?
- update markdown with qualimap, lambda alignments, etc?
- determine why different methods provide different methyaltion data
	- already know it's not because symbiont homologous DNA 
	- different cell types present?
		- can we survey for cell type specific SNPs (e.g. in germ cells?)
	- inter-individual variation? 
		- what does RSD for %me of every loci look like?
- should CpG coverage be normalized before comparing samples?
	- what is in the literature about this?
- why does sample 8 have less methylation than others in the group? It has less sequencing, but why does that mean less me?
- look at RRBS samples with CCGG tracks to see if cutting worked?  	

## Geoduck Meth:

- consolidate code
- confirm flow of figs and supp
- look into GO slim analysis / cluster by GOsemsim for biolgoical meaning of enriched DMG terms
	- [ViSEAGO](http://bioconductor.org/packages/devel/bioc/vignettes/ViSEAGO/inst/doc/mouse_bionconductor.html)

## Oyster: 

- integrate comments
- build abstract
- format for journal
- make sure repo is clean

## Sea lice methylome:
**lab time**
- decide which option to go for (look at with Steven)

## Salmon paper: 
- need to re-align newly trimmed data
	- what parameters? maybe chat with Mac
- re-do DMR analysis  

## Geoduck reprod. paper:
**Lab time**
- retake histology images with micrometer
- restage slides
- continue qPCR
- manuscript draft: []()

## Geoduck transgenerational paper:
- manuscript draft: []()


## Pteropod paper: