---
layout: post
title: CRISPR Diagnostics for Rapid On-Site Detection of Aquaculture Species and Pathogens
---


**ABSTRACT:**  
CRISPR Diagnostics for Rapid On-Site Detection of Aquaculture Species and Pathogens

Shelly A. Wanamaker1, Samuel Major1, Merry Moore1, Mia Bender1, Taylor Gibson1, Roberto Cruz-Flores2, Arun Dhar2, Matt Harke1, and Andrea Bodnar1
1. Gloucester Marine Genomics Institute, 417 Main Street Gloucester, MA
2. Aquaculture Pathology Laboratory, School of Animal and Comparative Biomedical Sciences, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ

Timely detection of harmful microbes is critical to controlling disease spread in agriculture and aquaculture. Standardmolecular diagnostic tests (e.g. PCR) require laboratories and lag in time-to-result leading to delayed action. Alternativemethods like isothermal amplification and CRISPR/Cas detection have high sensitivity and specificity with minimal,inexpensive equipment that can be converted to user-friendly, field-deployable formats. Different than antibody/ELISAbased rapid tests, these methods detect genetic targets which makes them easily adaptable. We developed LAMP +CRISPR diagnostics for DNA and RNA viruses that impact shrimp aquaculture worldwide (White Spot Syndrome Virus(WSSV) and Taura Syndrome Virus). We then adapted the diagnostics to target toxic Pseudo-nitzschia that cause amnesic shellfish poisoning in humans. The assays we developed show similar sensitivity, specificity, and quantificationto real-time PCR. Adapting these technologies for monitoring disease and beyond (e.g. selectively bred tolerant orresistant stocks) will support economic growth by reducing supply loss, increasing productivity and sustainability.
